# BIOMD0000000492: MODEL1308220000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000492.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000492.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Pathak2013 - MAPK activation in response to various biotic stresses

MAPK activation mechanism in response to various biotic (fungal and bacterial
pathogens) stress conditions in plants

This model is described in the article:

[Modeling of the MAPK machinery activation in response to various abiotic and
biotic stresses in plants by a system biology
approach.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23847397)

Pathak RK, Taj G, Pandey D, Arora S, Kumar A.

Bioinformation 2013; 9(9): 443-449

Abstract:

Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases (MAPKs) cascade plays an important role in
regulating plant growth and development, generating cellular responses to the
extracellular stimuli. MAPKs cascade mainly consist of three sub-families i.e.
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase (MAPKKK), mitogen-activated
protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK),
several cascades of which are activated by various abiotic and biotic
stresses. In this work we have modeled the holistic molecular mechanisms
essential to MAPKs activation in response to several abiotic and biotic
stresses through a system biology approach and performed its simulation
studies. As extent of abiotic and biotic stresses goes on increasing, the
process of cell division, cell growth and cell differentiation slow down in
time dependent manner. The models developed depict the combinatorial and
multicomponent signaling triggered in response to several abiotic and biotic
factors. These models can be used to predict behavior of cells in event of
various stresses depending on their time and exposure through activation of
complex signaling cascades.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000492](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000492) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


